If you will, if you'll tell me your full name, for
starters, and a little about... My name is Alec,
A-L-E-C, Christopher Sears.
And where you were born and raised? Born in
September 7, 1918, in Abilene, Texas, and grew up
in a town west of there called Merkle, 17 miles.
I went to high school and graduated there. I spent
two years in McMurray and Abilene. Then I went to
Texas Tech, Lubbock, for a degree in agriculture.
animal husbandry, minor in economics.
The
succeeding year, I had a graduate fellowship to
the University of North Dakota at Fargo to work, to
teach, and I'm
going up to Bismarck in June. I'm giving a talk on
the grasslands. I enjoyed my years up there.
Anyway, I taught half time, went to school half
time, and earned a master's in animal husbandry
and a minor in economics.
kind of taking off on the education part here. I'll
go back and pick up my early life.
While we're on it, I might as well finish. While in
North Dakota, my research project dealt with
vermifuges and parasites in sheep, and I worked
closely with the veterinary division there in the
school.
I became very interested in veterinary medicine.
This was partially due to my younger brother, two
years younger, dropped out of Tech and went back
and ran our ranch
at south of Abilene. Constable was married before
I was, and I felt that the ranch was not large enough
for two people to be managers. So that's the reason
I went up and got my master's. no thought of it
before that. Had
you started by using your husband's degree for
county agent work or anything like that? Well, I
had written some letters and I didn't seem very
excited about what was offered. And this happened
in my senior year. I didn't have a very big gap. They
had two previous doing the same project with
sheep, something with their sheep. And of course
Dr. Stangle there at Texas Tech recommended me for
it because I happened to be president of Block
Bridal Club and I had raised and been on the cattle
rights and sheep rights. When did you finish Tech?
Boy. That's all right. I graduated up from North
Dakota at 42, and two years there, so that would be
39 to 40. Yeah, just so I can. Yeah.
If you want me to drop back, or I can drop back on my
childhood earlier, I mean later. Let's go on with
this. The sequence will be better for you, I
believe. While I was there, of course, the World
War II broke out in December and I graduated in June
or so of the following year. And I had enlisted in
the Marine Corps during my senior during my second
year and
had written a thesis, written a paper and a thesis
and the Marine Corps called me in before
graduation time. The faculty was very
sympathetic
gave me my exam and accepted this work that I'd
already done as my thesis. But I'm lucky. You are.
Anyway, I went into the service about March, April
of 42 and was a, went into the Marine Officer School
and came out a second lieutenant, a Marine, I don't
think that has a lot to do with veterinary
medicine. I went to Honolulu
and then joined a defense battalion that was in
Palmyra, one of the islands that was the next one to
be invaded.
I remember not so good. You had a small stroke on .
Yeah, no, before that. Anyway, before, when we
turned them around. Yeah. was the next . And I was
there a short while, and then came back and changed
into a field cartel. I had lots of, quite a bit of
math, and the Marine Corps tried to use your word.
best fitted, and that certainly saved me a lot of
walking. Vietnam, I'd have been in Vietnam, not
Vietnam, but Guadalcanal. My outfit would have
gone to Guadalcanal if I'd been in anything but
artillery or coastal artillery. But anyway, I
came back and then went out to Majuro on a different
outfit. there for a few months, and came, I was
overseas 23 months, and came back to the United
States. Pacific all the time? Yes, Pacific all the
time. And went back to Quantico to an advanced
course, and then went back to San Francisco to be
deployed again. Funny thing that probably the
European war ended while I was going to Quantico,
and the Japanese war ended while I was on the road to
San Francisco, so I never went back. I was lucky not
to end up in the occupation.
Okay, from there I... When did you leave service?
about December 4th, 6th, and I applied for
application to three veterinary schools,
Cornell and... So you had kind of decided during
the war what you wanted to come back and do. Yes,
that made up my mind. My brother was running the
ranch until he went into the service, and then of
course he came back about the same time I did. Went
back to the ranch. So I figured that would be the
best way to go. Cornell and Colorado and A&M. A&M
accepted more of my previous college work than the
other two. And therefore, I really would have
liked to have gone to Cornell. But I thought it was a
better school. It rated better. Yeah, it did. It
was an honor. But that's not for the book. But
anyway, I went to A&M, the veterinary school, in
January, I believe, mid-semester of 46, and
graduated in 49. I hit some of the, most of the, I
don't know, three-year schedule at that time.
at least a high sophomore. All my English and most
of my chemistry and all that was done in history.
But I graduated in 49 from A&M. You were with GI
Bill. Yes, uh-huh. And I taught in the animal
husbandry.
I was married at that time. I didn't know I asked the
other. Yeah, I was married and had two children
during that time. So I had to have a little bit more
than you have to be able to get through. So I taught
in the animal husbandry, mostly
dealing with the judging team, stock doings, and
telemetry, animal
husbandry. Do you remember anything special
about any of your professors down there when you
were there, or any special professors? Well, we
had a few characters, but Dr. Turk was a fellow of
parasitology. My name is Turk. Did you know Tom, my
name, while you were there? No. What year did he
graduate? About the same time. I was going to look
at his degree. He was 47. So he's down to 47. I
crisscrossed with some of the 48s, but not 47.
Anyway, Dr. Turk and, oh, who was the... I think
Marcel is still around. Yes, he was our dean. And
Dr. Smith. Yeah, he was the head of the physiology
department. I'll think of him in a minute. I have a
small stroke. a few years back, and I have trouble
on recall. I can think of it. It's fine. But if I try
to think of it, it just won't come. And the anatomy
teacher, a tall fellow, blond, very
instrumental. I enjoyed him. Of course, a few of
you didn't enjoy him.
Now was the emphasis you felt like when you were
there a large animal? Oh yeah, definitely. You
didn't have much... No, you couldn't get in if you
wanted to be a small animal. I intended to be a large
animal too with my agricultural background. It
was easy to do that. So you finished in 49 and then
what did you do? I looked around for various places
to practice and I ended up in Longview, Texas.
setting up a mixed practice. By yourself? Yes, new
practice. And how'd that work? It worked fine. I
had all I could do and was at the point of having to
hire another veterinarian when I decided that
maybe I'd sell and come to West Texas. We were, my
wife's in North Dakota and I was West Texas, and
East Texas is different. I was very successful
there and sold my practice. Had it on the market
three days. Is that right? Yeah. Now you had an
edge, it strikes me, maybe on some of these other
people, because you had a lot of economics
background. You bet I did. I made all of that. And
you know, this is a question I ask all these people.
What was your business? Because I see the practice
of veterinary medicine as a business. Oh, it is.
And apparently that's one of the real
deficiencies that a lot of these people have had.
Well, I ended up with four. I'm going to tear this
thing up here. I had four hospitals here, and that
helped me on that. I branched out, and I had a
partnership and so forth. But when I sold those,
that's my retirement. And it's... And so that's
the economics part of it. That's important. And I
raised that question with Calvin Price and
several people, you know, and apparently the
curriculum... I had Texas Tech, too. I had a
good... That was one reason I asked for it up there.
And the curriculum just doesn't have room,
apparently, for anything like that. I think
that's a real one. Oh, it's where a big lot of
them... their education, I think. So how long were
you in Longview? About two years, probably two
years. So you set up a practice that you could
actually sell in two years. That's pretty good.
Yeah, yeah. That's pretty good. I didn't ask
enough because it sold too quick, but it sold to a
fella in Kilgore that had a practice over there and
knew, he grew up in Longview, in Marshall, so he
knew the area. We were good friends.
I looked around and tried to go into Dallas. And you
saw without knowing where you were going? No,
that's right. You were very brave. Well,
hard-headed maybe. But anyway, Dallas was nearly
a closed city as far as building veterinary
hospitals. You had to find some
county land inside Dallas to get the zoning right
to build a hospital. And so I looked at court work,
which really I loved more than I did Dallas, but
thought there was more opportunity over there.
And found out that they'd had a new zoning rule that
allowed you to go into areas that you couldn't go
into otherwise.
Now, has this been a continual problem for the
practice, that is, your zoning problem? See, we
are criticized for noise, barking, and for odors.
It's been a real problem down through the years.
And St. Louis
formed a, not a resolution, a law, a zoning law,
formed a new zoning law that allowed the
veterinarians to go in with pretty much a closed
building. And that made all the difference in the
world. Because you were accepted, if you followed
that one, two or three zones that you couldn't have
gone in otherwise. And you could go in residential
areas that are close to residential areas, which
you needed to be. Has that been pretty well adopted
now? Yeah, so it's universal. But it came out of St.
Louis? Yes, and it came out about 51, 52,
about 52, 53, something like that. Most everybody
knows that. There was one guy named Bill. Two
hospitals in Fort Worth just before I came and
couldn't move in them, built them. And I thought he
would qualify, and then the city adopted that
building along, and I was able to do what I wanted
to. So you come on over to Fort Worth? Yes, and I
worked in Dallas. And then you go to the hospital
right away? I worked in Dallas for about three
months, but then I built my hospital and my home. on
the west side of Ridgely area. And you're probably
unique again, and you've got capital to start out
with. Well, I used my ranch to... You got some
credit. ...as equity. My father died when I was 12.
I need to go back and cover that somewhere, but a
man, when we became of age, my mother deeded his
part to us of the ranch, which was in Memphis. case,
a section, and I used it for financing over and over
again with Southwestern Life as a loan on it, and
take that money and invest it in the hospital. And
it's been very, very good for me. But I think, and I
had an uncle who loaned me $10,000. So by the time I
was building a house and everything, I didn't have
enough. Never, never. You need an uncle or a
grandfather or a father that finances you. And
you're unique in that. And you're unique that, I
want you to make this point, that we have something
to sell when we retire. We're not like dentists and
particularly MDs. They have a lot of trouble.
selling their establishment, MDs, selling their
practice. And we have the practice plus physical
building and income coming in, which is tougher at
the beginning, but it's better at the retirement.
Most of them, a lot of them haven't even thought
about that.
Yeah, I picked up on that from a number of people.
You have to provide your own retirement in our
family. Your social security is just a drop in the
bucket. Let me go back and pick up a child. Yeah, go
ahead, because your father died when you were
young, and your mother is running the ranch. Yeah.
My father died when I was 12. And I was the oldest
child of five children. And she ran the ranch,
living in Merkle, with the ranch 35 miles south of
there. We had a very good foreman who continued for
several years. And then we had another very good
man who was a foreman. And we had advice from my
uncle, who was a rancher, to help him. I would work
at the ranch every summer. We moved out there. You
were staying in Miracle, so you'd go to school? Go
to school, that's right. So I would have a decent
education. My mother was a graduate of
Hardin-Simmons, so she appreciated an education
and desired that we all have one. As a brother, we
all did get degrees. That was good for me in lots of
respects and made a very serious upbringing for a
boy. I don't think I had to act as kind of her right
hand. And also, I miss all the summer activities
that kids have in town, like bicycling, swimming,
things like that. But I think it was good
education.
So when you,
this goes, when you go off to school, your brother
had decided he wants to be a rancher. That seems to
be the way. We both went to Tech. I was there a year
before he came. He was two years younger.
It just wasn't for him. He was never, didn't make
excellent grades. He was as sharp as a tack, but he
just didn't go to school. And he married early, and
it was a natural thing to go to the ranch. Did he stay
with the ranch? Yes. He died when he was 51. We all
have heart problems, seriously, I mean. His wife
is running the ranch right now. Is that right?
Yeah. So we leased our property to her, and she runs
it that way.
I was the second president of the Tarrant County
Veterinary Medical Association here, and a
classmate of mine was the first president. Who was
that? Oh, gosh, you remember? That's all right.
I'm sure I've got that. I think I've probably got
that. Out of Houston. I think I've got that in
Tarrant. The Tarrant County history are a little
off. Anyway, what was the attitude of people? When
you started in practice here, I would imagine Fort
Worth would be really strongly supportive of
veterinary medicine. period and don't
understand it pretty much. Not particularly.
They had had an association for a very short time,
maybe two or three years way back. And then my
classmates, I think five of us, came here. And we
just decided that we needed one. And my wife
decided to try and organize the women. And she got
the damnedest bawling out and reading down you
ever saw from one of the older veterinarians'
wives. Not much older, but it ended up this gal was
the third wife's veterinary president. She
switched her tune and came in. But
that's another story. But
I think you had one of the better state I was
president of it twice. We ran down and we decided
for about three or four years we'd re-run some
presidents and get it going again. Do you happen to
remember when you were first served as president
and when you were last president what the number of
members were? Or how many practitioners there
were?
15 years difference there. I know the first
meeting I met in the hospital, the organizational
meeting, and I would say it was 15, 20 members.
And
I was supposed to give some of this to Dr. Farrell's
wife, she was doing the write-ups of Tarrant
County information. I have a different file on it,
but I didn't bring it today. I'll get that from you
later, Farrell. Yeah.
I missed something back there I wanted to tell you.
With the ranch? Yeah, I've got that time. My wife
and I were both presidents of the TVMA. at the same
time. And that was in 62.
And that was the first time that happened.
Let me give you a little bit of TVMA stuff. Yeah, I
sure do. These are extra coffees. You're welcome
to them. And all of them deal with my time except
that top one. And it tells, one article in there
tells about Dan being elected the national
president. National office. Good. Yeah, I
appreciate that. You want these back? No, I have
copies. All right. Thank you. I have one or two.
Yeah, that's really handy. One or two that I don't
want to give up. No, no, don't do that. Let me start
back this again. That's great.
I had one real controversial thing happen when I
was president. We'll talk about it at last. And you
might just mention the names or what names. It
doesn't matter. It's over and the man's dead on
that.
My regime, we started the first seminars being
held out in the state. OK. It's a continuing
education program. The first one was held in
Arlington.
Why did you do that? What was the situation? Well,
we felt the need for it that other than
the state convention and the seminar It was held in
June at College Station, where the only
educational, continuing education,
particularly that of the veterinarian, could
attend. And we figured that if you brought
subjects that weren't approached at these
meetings and made them so that veterinarians did
not have to travel over 50, 60 miles, we would keep
her. up to date and that's been a very big bug with
me. I am one of the early people in Texas in the
American Animal Hospital Association and that's
our theme is continuing education and keeping up
to date.
Now, were the state conventions seen or used at all
as a mechanism for being informed, do you think,
before this time? Oh, yeah. They had programs,
yeah. This is a
program. Of course, it had a lot of my friends in it.
These are the conventions. I can loan you this. No,
I've got those in Austin. Don't give me anything
that you don't have. Oh, here's the problem. It's
quite educational. But it was relied on as a
mechanism for trying to maintain some degree of
the room. And it moved from Fort Worth, Dallas,
Houston, and San Antonio primarily. It was real
unusual to go anywhere else. And when was the
state, I interviewed Charlie Huff, when was the
state offices moved to Austin? Right here. Okay.
That's what I was thinking. No, wait a minute. We
may have moved just in Austin. Yeah, because
that's okay. I was just trying to associate it with
your involvement, if there was any association.
Now, who was the executive secretary, I guess, of
the association when you were When I was, it was
King from Dallas. He was a, Paul King, he was a CPR
man. Was hired three years earlier, two years
earlier, at an Abilene convention.
Glenn Savage succeeded him during my regime.
Glenn Savage, we advertised in the
four main newspapers, San Antonio, Houston,
well, Austin, too. for an executive secretary and
told them what we wanted. And the board of
directors interviewed 53 persons in Austin. And
you don't need to put this in if you want to. It's an
interesting thing. We had had a brother of a
governor apply. A fellow had run for the Attorney
General Lopi, a PR man that had been a San Antonio
for years, PR man from Denver,
and Glenn Savage, who was executive secretary for
ICCRD,
representing
from Wichita Falls. At that time? He was the
executive secretary, Akard, Akard, I-K-A-R-D.
Well, funny thing, he called me up at about 10, 11
o'clock on the last Sunday that we were
interviewing and said he'd only heard about it. We
didn't have any paper on him, you know,
background, history, anything. But he sounded so
good that I... told him, come on down, and we'd
interview him. And I took it on myself. And at 3.30
or so in the afternoon, he was bailing hay at the
time. And he left out, came on down. And he was so
much what we wanted that he sold himself on us. And
he had a tremendous opposition in the people we had
interviewed. Very good people. Well, let me ask,
what were you looking for, and was there a special
need you had? We wanted somebody that, it sounds
silly, but could write letters, get us good
publicity. We felt that his background there was
very good. Hackard was head of the oil committees
and very successful in the national
representative in the House. uh and he uh didn't
know boots about veterinary medicine but he was
very interested in it he had a partial farm
background uh i would say it was his uh his
education and his uh employment that caused us to
hire him and enthusiasm he was uh and he was uh an
executive secretary for About five years,
approximately. He went out when the
Valley came in.
He was not in Norton's regime. But he really did a
lot for our association. What did he do? And again,
what did you want him to do? Well, for one thing, we
were under the state sales tax. And he and Bob
Dillons up in the managed, excuse me, Bob
were the main. He was very active in .
Jones, Bob Jones, in getting veterinarians out
from under the sales tax. We had it for about two
years. And most veterinarians had to pay it, but
didn't charge for it. So we were absorbing it
ourselves. And I give Bob Jones, who was our
legislative chairman, that credit. Second
thing, we increased the
membership greatly. I don't have that figure.
How'd you do that? Well, it was hard going. Did you
sell it at school? At school we didn't get
anywhere. We tried to, but most of the members, our
teachers wouldn't even be members. I've heard
that's no problem. The anatomy teacher there is
one. that talked me down to the very, he said, well,
he wasn't even, didn't even take the state board.
He wasn't licensed in Texas. A bunch of them, by the
way. They were hard heads. And Jones, you can give
him credit for breaking that barrier. I talked to
Al Price, who was my classmate, became dean at a San
Antonio meeting. And I said, Al, it doesn't look
very good when less than 50% of the faculty, and it
was quite a bit less, about 30,000, can't be
members of your state association. And during my
regime or the next one, I believe it was the next
one, there came up a deal where they were raising
salaries all over Texas
university people. And A&M would not have gotten
raises had not our profession been all out. And I
told Al that. And he went back and made changes. He
didn't issue an edict, but it was damn close to an
edict. And I don't know if there's nothing else you
might That's something those people still need to
be reminded of. You know that? It's amazing how
faculty just can't get in their minds. My first
article there is that, is trying to tell
veterinarians what we did for them. And faculty
just can't get in their minds that they have
obligations. The military, the same way. They, a
lot, we had very few military members. But they
need to be a member of the local association and the
state because, besides the national one, But
we instigated seminars. That was another thing.
Let me see. Sales tax.
Oh, we broke the Dallas-Fort Worth-Houston
routine and sent the convention to
I think in Monterey. The Valley. Just a minute. I
had our first one there in quite a while. The Valley
had a very good veterinary group and had been
asking and asking and asking to have an
association. This thing happened at Amarillo and
El Paso in later years. and the Corpus Christi one,
but those are about the only times it's missed the
big city, but for the state convention. I missed
it. Brownville. Brownville, yes. Every
association goes through it, and Texas goes
through it. You bet. Probably. AHA and AVMA go
through the same thing. Yeah. I'm sure you've got
to see that over and over. We had a liaison with the
Texas Pharmacy
group,
just as we were. The TVMA, they were there. They
were pharmaceutical and worked out a lot of drug
problems
or drug reviews sold in pharmacies. They really
had veneer labels. And that was one thing we
started, and it ensued through the years. But it
was the first thing that resonated there.
Where did Savage go when he left to get your man? He
became a manager and partial owner for a
veterinary sales group that Bob Jones headed. And
it was up in the South Plains for about three, four
years. And then he bought out our farm, Lone Star,
got their supply here in Fort Worth. So he's still
in there? In that, yes. But I
thought that our hiring might make a good little
side story. Yeah, that is. Here's Dan. You have
this book. Yeah.
And it also brings that new office. And that's in
the book there, too. Good. So in your practice,
let's go back to your practice now.
You start out with a hospital, you go to your
hospital, and you're still doing a mixed
practice, basically. Yes, for a few years. I would
say five to seven years, something like that, I was
in mixed practice. And then what happened? Well,
primarily the dairies and horse, people that had
horses and stuff were zoned out to a radius of over
10 miles, and it was inconvenient to leave an
office full of people and go out and make a large
animal call.
The economics were not good, and the sentiment in
the hospital was not good. Even if you had two
people in the hospital, which I did pretty early,
It still wasn't a paying thing.
Most of them may fall this way. It's the economics
of it. Sure. You can't leave a steady income where
you got your investment to go out on a $10, $15 horse
call. Now, were the small animal clients
intruding on you anyway? In other words, they're
coming? No. I set up to... I learned in Longview
that they were there and they were ready to come to
anybody. I
learned a lot there and I learned in working for
this veteran in Dallas what a good hospital it was.
When you were in school, did you have any kind of
specifications for what went into an animal
hospital? No. After I got out, AVMA, AAHA,
American Animal Hospital Association,
published a small book on it, and that's the first
thing. Then they got the sponsoring hospital of
the month, which in their publication showed his
hospital plan, how he financed it, and his
building. And it became several firms in the
United States, three or four, that had more
knowledge than all the others. And they came to the
forefront and improved hospital design.
American Animal Hospital bears the burden of
teaching that the schools did not. And while in
school, I visited as many hospitals as I could and
drew their floor plans. And I have built one, two,
three, four hospitals
and bought one other one. Were you operating them
all at one time? No, I operated those in partial
business with four of them. Partnerships. But
I think that I've been through greatly. Each plan
was better than the previous one. And also, I built
mine to be able to build onto tried to build the
others that way that the additions would not ruin
the looks of it and ruin the efficiency of it. And
that's a hard thing to accomplish. Yeah, yeah. Now
when you move into your, more and more into small
animal, did you finally make a decision that
that's the way you're going to go? Yes,
definitely. Yeah, I sold all my instruments or
gave them away. I made One call about three or four
years later, a good friend of mine, when we'd go out
and check a horse for a Christmas wedding, a good
old gentle horse, and it was in December, of
course, and pretty frosty.